---
title: The Greatest Remedy Your Astrologer Never Told You About
discription:
draft: false
date:
---
### Introduction
Let's address you, the reader, first. Maybe you come from a typical Hindu family, in which case, you probably do have a home village even if you are living in the city and there's a good chance that there's a traditional pandit your family consults from time to time there (or elsewhere). Even if you don't know about your Village, there's a good chance that your family consulted some pandit or traditional astrologer sometime. Maybe you are not a Hindu, but you still do believe in Astrology and have consulted "Vedic" Astrology - I prefer the term "jyotisa" - sometime. Maybe you are interested in spiritual practices. Maybe you are interested in occult. Maybe you are feeling troubled in life. Maybe you clicked on this blog just because, this is no mere coincidence let me assure you. If you fall into any of these categories, well you are at the right place and even if you don't believe you are, well you are at the right place anyway!

Let's address what's an Astrological Remedy now. It's generally a task, Puja, donation and a change in some habit that is suggested as a remedial measure by an astrologer in case of an unfavorable condition in the Kundli - it could be the ongoing dasha, some graha badha, graha dosha, health issues or maybe just a desire of the concerned. How do remedies work? That's a question for another blog, but the gist of remedies is that you are supposed to get favorable results or at least decrease the intensity of the suffering/burden once you perform them. However, I am talking about remedy that works for everyone, a remedy that is not even based on your horoscope.

I, as a student of Jyotisa, personally don't believe in most remedies that you may find in books and hear from typical astrologers who merely practice it as business. However, there are many  remedies that are practical and some obscure which still give results every damn time, even I don't understand the link between them and the actual problem. However, I feel that there's one remedy, or let's call it a practice instead, that is often neglected or just not discussed. There's a good reason as to why that's the case, as you might understand later.

### The Crux
Now what's the greatest astrological remedy am I talking about? Well, it's not an "astrological remedy" but it's a practice, a constant regular practice - Sadhana OR a disciplined spiritual practice for those of you who don't understand the meaning of the word "Sadhana". But not just any Sadhana - yes, indeed, Sadhana can be performed for so many different things - including, but not limited to, wealth, progeny, education, health, even so called "Siddhis" OR spiritual powers. 

I am talking about the most basic, yet the most advanced form of Sadhana. It is that practice which raises your consciousness to the level where your will starts affecting the situation you are dealt with due to past karma. It is that by which Ravana walked on the planets as if they are mere steps towards his throne. It is that by which everything is gained. It is the most fundamental, yet the endgame of it all. A practice that raises your consciousness so high, that you can't be limited by the limiters - Grahas. A practice that makes you realize your true self, become one with it and relieve yourself from the duality of this creation. It is the Sadhana of raising your **Awareness**. Yes, that's it - Awareness. It is the key to it all. 

### But How/Why?
I want you to pause for a moment and think about all the actions that we perform throughout the day. This should include everything, the most minute tasks like brushing your teeth, bathing, eating your food, doom scrolling on Instagram, even merely breathing. Think about the level of awareness you apply when doing all the actions that you perform throughout the day. I believe you must have noticed that most of the actions we perform throughout our day are done on an "autopilot" mode. We are barely aware of most of our actions. It is almost as if we are not doing several of these actions "consciously", but merely on a subconscious or unconscious level. There's multiple scientific research that also affirm the same, you can search for them on the search engine of your preference and scientific journals.

Several Upanishads, Vedic Scriptures, Tantric texts like Vijnana Bhairav Tantra, Yogic scriptures like Swara Yoga etc. all claim but one common thing - **Awareness leads to the uplifting of Consciousness**. Once such consciousness is realized, one can do anything as per their will. Sure, you are going to be dealt with circumstances based on your past karma, as also shown by the Grahas, but the choices you make in those circumstances will be yours - they will be your conscious decisions - ***YOUR FREE WILL***.

Let's understand the meaning of the word "Graha". It literally means - that which binds. In the context of astrology, a "Graha" binds you by your past karma. This depletes your ability to exert your free will and in turn, you suffer. Now, I am not saying the planets cause any of the things you face. Your horoscope is just a sign, one of the ways to predict your future by studying the circumstances of your birth, but this is a subject for another blog. Point is, you need to escape this bind by taking conscious decisions and when you do so, you will realize that any other remedy is just too futile.

### Practical Perspective 
There's one problem with this "remedy" and that is it is not instant or magical. An astrologer can't recommend this to a person who has come to him to demand solution for his debt, health or some other severe problems. It is a lifelong discipline that one must develop and you can't really use it to obtain fruits, because when you do attach yourself to the fruits of your action, well the entire point of this practice is lost.

The point of this practice is to live a dignified life while facing all the circumstances you are dealt head on to avoid the accumulation of further karma that may result in more rebirths. The only point of this practice is freedom. Freedom from being bound to make certain choices in the circumstances you are dealt with. Freedom from the ego and mind. Freedom from the clutches of this creation but also the Freedom to enjoy this creation in its truest form.

Ok but how to actually do it? Well there's a couple of ways. The easiest of all is breath. As explained in various scriptures and specifically those regarding Swara Yoga, being aware of your breath is the simplest method to re-enforce awareness and get a hold of your consciousness. It requires the least effort among all the other possible methods. Even in this, the simplest method is to use your limbs as per the nostril you are breathing through at a given time. You see, we human beings generally only breath through one of the two nostrils. Now what I am telling you to do is simple - when you breath from your left nostril, do things with your left limbs, be it starting to walk, opening a door, entering a room, exiting a place, brushing your teeth etc. and when you breath from your right nostril, use your right limbs. When we are breathing from both the nostrils, well that's sort of the most ideal state because that just means our awareness is at its peak in the moment. Such scenario, though ideal, is very rare and is generally attained via practices like pranayama and meditation.

The second method that I would suggest in case you have no Guru is - trying out the 112 meditation techniques of Vijnana Bhairava Tantra and see for yourself which one works for you. The best book for the same that I personally resorted to after trying out various different resources is Osho's The Book of Secrets. There's another book you can try if you don't like Osho - Sri Lakshmanjoo's The Manual for Self-Realization.  If you follow either of these books, you essentially take up either Osho or Sri Lakshmanjoo as your Guru because their commentaries on all the 112 meditations are amazing to say the least.

The third method, and my personal favorite, is Mantra sadhana. Now, this will require certain guidance from an actual human Guru. You can find several resources online but trust me they are all incomplete in some way or another. I believe this is due to the gatekeeping of spiritual practices in India and this is a very controversial topic in itself with several positives and negatives. Without getting too much into it, you have 3 bets really - 1. Find a Guru. Boring? Ok 2. Start with Nama Japa of your favorite deity. It essentially involves only 3 words - "Om" + "Name of your chosen deity" + "Namah". That's it. Boring still? 3. Learn about the mantra of your choice completely and thoroughly. Understand every single part of the procedure and only then began the Japa. Generally, it will just not do anything because the chances of you learning about the full procedure without experienced guidance are very low. However, if you are fortunate enough to learn and understand the whole procedure of your chosen mantra, a self-initiation process exists which you can find with deep research into the subject. I will leave that topic for a future blog.

### Conclusion
Be more Aware. Yeah, that's the conclusion. Now go do your thing. Peace out.